- [Instructor] Before we get too deep,
let's take a look at what serverless is,
and how it operates at a conceptual level.
Now many times you may hear the word serverless,
and immediately think, well, there's no server.
Well that's not true.
There obviously is a server.
The difference here is that you are paying for operations,
not for the server itself.
And there's a reason for this.
This allows the Cloud provider to aggregate a whole bunch
of functions instead of you dedicating
that VM hardware for downtime.
So again, you're not paying to run a VM,
you're paying for the operations.
But there is still a server,
even though this technology name is serverless.
Another aspect is you are not managing the runtime of VM.
Now even in Cloud, where the VM is controlled
by Cloud infrastructure, you still have maintenance
of a running VM, whatever form of compute it is.
So that is where the benefit comes from.
Is not only are you not paying 24 hours a day,
seven days a week for the VM, but you're not managing it,
dealing with upgrades, dealing with nodes dying,
dealing with any of the other aspects that come
with management of the VM, even in Cloud infrastructure.
Now, this may get a little bit confusing
as to why this is offered.
And the key here is that it provides maximum utilization
of the compute time itself.
A Cloud provider can take and pair cyclical workloads,
such that the maximum capacity of the VM
is achieved throughout the entire day
as opposed to you out in the VM, where it's only
achieving maximum throughput at given times of the day.
Now this allows the provider to leverage many workloads
on a group of VMs, instead of you getting the leverage
of that group yourself.
This allows them to maximize the value again,
and do so in a way that is cost-effective
for you and for them.
Now there are many, many workloads that this applies to
that make it very attractive.
Now, I want to take a look
at this concept of cyclical workloads.
Now, I'm going to give you a very exaggerated view
of a cyclical workload,
and I have never seen a real one that is this cyclical.
But I have seen workloads that mimics this.
It's just not a pure sine wave,
which is what I'm going to provide.
Now the idea here is that we have a single process
that is running,
and you'll see throughout the day, throughout the week,
throughout the year, that you have peak times
and valleys within this workload.
Now, again, this varies by provider,
and it varies by situation, but you'll see these peaks
and valleys throughout the life cycle
of an application running on a single VM.
Now in the serverless world,
we can take an add another cyclical workload
on this series of VMs.
And what you see here is that even
though we still have peaks and valleys of a single flow,
we've now filled those peaks and valleys
with another process, such that the peak of one
may mimic the valley of another.
And we're getting more utilization on this VM pool.
Now, if we add yet another workflow,
you will see that we've reduced the time
where we're not under peak workload,
and we've reduced the time
where we're not under a valley to be as small as possible.
Now, obviously a VM is not going
to just run three serverless functions.
Ideally, it's going to run hundreds
or thousands in a pool of VMs,
and this allows them to get maximum throughput
across the workload the entire time.
Now, you may step back and question this whole idea
of cyclical workloads, but I encourage you to take a look
at what actually happens on your services.
If you run Cron operations, you'll see that they peak,
and then they go dormant for a period of time.
You can see this same utilization across industries.
Look at something like e-commerce,
where during the holiday shopping season,
you see a ramp up in technology usage,
and then a ramp down after the holiday season is over.
And what often happens in a traditional environment
where you're running VMs,
is that you will actually scale your entire infrastructure
for the peaks so that you can handle the peak workload,
and the rest of the time when you're in the valley
it becomes wasted space.
So this is where serverless can start to offer some value
as we maximize the utilization on peaks,
and decrease the utilization on these valleys.